# Styles

## Writing your own SCSS

You can write your own SCSS in `/src/styles/styles.scss` file.

## Overriding variables

If you want to override any of vuetify or our custom variable then you can override it in `/src/styles/variables/{_vuetify|_template}.scss` folder.

In this folder you can find two variable files.

### _vuetify.scss

You can override Vuetify variable in this file.

You can override variables like below:

```scss{2}
@forward "../../@core/scss/template/libs/vuetify/variables" with (
  $color-pack: false
);
```

<br>

You can get list of variables you can override in below locations:

- Check Vuetify SASS variables [page](https://next.vuetifyjs.com/en/features/sass-variables/)

### _template.scss

You can override template/custom variable in this file.

You can override variables like below:

```scss{2}
@forward "@core/scss/template/variables" with (
  $navbar-high-emphasis-text: true
);
```

<br>

You can get list of variables you can override in below locations:

- Check `/src/@core/scss/base/_variables.scss` and `/src/@core/scss/template/_variables.scss` files for our custom variables

## Mixins

### `icon-size`

We use this mixin to customize the size of icon. Size of icon is determined using `height` and `width` property. Instead of writing same value for both properties like below:

```scss
.some-icon {
  height: 1.25rem;
  width: 1.25rem;
}
```

We use this mixin:

```scss
// Import mixins
@use '@layouts/styles/mixins';

.some-icon {
  @include mixins.icon-size(1.25rem);
}

/* Output

.some-icon {
  height: 1.25rem;
  width: 1.25rem;
}

*/
```

### `rtl`

You have to use this mixin if you are writing RTL styles. This will scope the written style to RTL direction only.

```scss
// Import mixins
@use '@layouts/styles/mixins';

.selector {
  @include mixins.rtl {
    margin-left: 1rem;
  }
}

/* Output

[dir="rtl"] .selector {
  margin-left: 1rem;
}

*/
```

However, it does more than just generating RTL styles. It will only generate the styles if you have enabled generating RTL styles.

```scss
// File: /src/styles/_variables.scss

/*
If you have disable generating RTL styles by setting `$enable-rtl-styles: false`
then style won't be generated by rtl mixin
*/

@forward '@layouts/styles/variables' with (
  $enable-rtl-styles: false
);
```

```scss
// File: Your SCSS file
// Import mixins
@use '@layouts/styles/mixins';

.selector {
  @include mixins.rtl {
    margin-left: 1rem;
  }
}

/* No output */
```

---

## Custom-Classes

We have defined various custom classes in our template which makes development fast, smooth and enjoyable. We recommend you to use this classes whenever required.

- **flip-in-rtl**: `flip-in-rtl` is a custom class which rotate the element 180 degree when direction is rtl.

- **Timeline Classes**: We have defined timeline classes for timeline title, timeline text and timeline meta. Below is the list of classes:
  
  - **app-timeline-title**: sets font-weight, font-size, line-height and color for timeline title.
  - **app-timeline-meta**: sets text disabled and font size smaller for meta data in timeline.
  - **app-timeline-text**: sets text, font-size  and line-height for timeline text.

- **match-height**: The `match-height` class makes sure that the height of cards in one row should be same.
- **clamp-text**: The `clamp-text` class is for truncating or applying ellipsis to text content after only two lines, providing a concise and visually pleasing presentation.
- **carousel-delimiter-top-end**: The `carousel-delimiter-top-end` class moves carousel-delimiter on the top end as shown in the dashboard example.
- **disable-tab-transition**: The `disable-tab-transition` class eliminates the transition effect on `v-window-item` components, resulting in a smooth user experience without any visual animations.

## How to override styles using placeholders <Badge text="Contributors"/>

Our template provides SCSS placeholders to modify the sensitive core styles easily. As a contributor you are allowed to write your styles in `src/@core/scss/templates`.

Placeholders provided in `src/@core/scss/base/placeholders` are available to override.

Assume you want to increase the `font-weight` of vertical nav section title. You can find placeholder `%vertical-nav-section-title` in `src/@core/scss/base/placeholders/_vertical-nav.scss` file.

Now, to override this placeholder, create file in `src/@core/scss/template/placeholders/` with the same name as in `src/@core/scss/base/placeholders`. Hence, we will create a new file `_vertical-nav.scss` in `src/@core/scss/template/placeholders/`.

```scss
// Section title
%vertical-nav-section-title {
  font-weight: 600;
}
```

Next, import this newly created file in `src/@core/scss/template/placeholders/_index.scss`

```scss
@forward "vertical-nav";
```

*Done* 🥳
